# Tips
- Interview is a bidirectional process
- Soft skills (chemistry and interpersonal skills) are important
- Provide the candidate with as comfortable an experience as possible

# Steps
1. Preparation. Read CV, think of structure
2. Personal introduction: I welcome the candidate, and introduce myself, mentioning my name, my position in the company, and a very short summary of my career (or, in other words, how I wound up in my job). This may sound weird for you to tell the candidate about your own professional history, but I found that it helps establish the interview as a two-way street, it relieves some of the pressure off the candidate, and they often seem interested and even appreciative. It's actually not uncommon for candidates to ask me follow up questions. In any case, this should take no more than five minutes.
3. Company introduction: I introduce the company, as much as is necessary, from a largely business perspective. If it's a startup with a relatively short history, I will talk about that history a bit, and describe the company's product(s) as succinctly as possible. I may mention the investors of the company, I find startup interviewees are often interested and require reassurance that the company has enough funding to last more than a few months. I will then quickly talk about the specific team for which the candidate is interviewing, and the team's part of the company whole. Takes another four or so minutes.
4. Position introduction: I will talk about the position a bit, describing what we're hoping to achieve by hiring for that position, and what the responsibilities will largely look like. Probably two or three minutes.
5. Candidate history: I ask the candidate to talk about themselves, detailing their professional history, and whatever they think is relevant to the interview. I find that I can absorb the information better if I ask the candidate to elaborate on certain topics as they are talking, otherwise I can quickly forget. For example, if the candidate mentions a certain system they worked on, but doesn't volunteer what aspects of the system they worked on, I will ask them. I often use this information later on in the technical section.
6. Candidate desires: I ask the candidate why they left their previous job (if relevant, or why they're thinking of leaving their current job), what kind of job they're looking for, how they want to see their careers evolving, etc. The latter two questions often stymie the candidates, and while it doesn't disappoint me when it does, I absolutely love it when the candidate is prepared for this question, which doesn't happen often. The reason I ask comes from personal introspection. There have been several cases in my life where I never asked myself that question when pursuing certain things, and being asked that question by someone else put me on the spot and forced me to look within myself, which truly changed things for me. So I ask these questions because chances are I am going to get an honest answer, even if it takes the candidate a few minutes of silence before it finally comes out, and it helps me to decide if the candidate is a good fit for the position and the company, and vice-versa.
7. Technical skills: I attempt to gauge the candidate's technical skills, and get a feeling for what it's like to work with them. This is the longest section of the interview, and I elaborate on it later on.
8. Candidate questions: I allow the candidate to ask whatever questions they have. If they don't have any questions, I insist.
9. Next steps: I quickly describe the next steps of the hiring process, as relevant.
10. Goodbye: I make sure to thank the candidate for taking the time to interview with us, and wish them good luck.